Session 1 - Session 1

1. Market research need not be necessarily be a scientific exercise. Everyone in business do it, knowingly or unknowingly. 
    1. Comments from customers, product returns, product not moving from the shelf, or flying off the shelf
    2. Someone else doing something awesome - me too
    3. Correcting prices in line with others
2. Given the increase in size of businesses, more sophisticated tools are required. The distance from the decision makers and customers increase, giving way to misinformation, misdirection, and petty office politics. Distance may also be increased by the use of certain channels. For instance, let’s say you use digital channels, when customers are by default really far away from you. Adding further complexity was the increasing cross border trade, multi national operations, clash of cultures and so much more. 
3. It is a way of keeping the ear to the ground. 
	(img)
4. What are these new age tools?
    1. Desk research
    2. Telephonic interviews
    3. Focus groups
    4. Surveys
5. Doing so helps. It helps in staying current in the market. It helps in creating the correct products and  ensuring sales is healthy for the firm in total. 
6. Rightly, the market research industry has sprung up. The primary client of this industry: Impatient people. People today want to know what would happen before it really happens. There is an aversion for uncertainty. Rightly so, at no point in our history before us has there been a generation that had so much to lose. Just quickly take a look at the global GDP figures over the last 200 years (the years for which we have data). 
	(img)
7. Take this for example: 
	(img)

9. For the first time, audits were being done and managers were using what’s called ‘objective metrics’ to measure their performance
10. Today, we have the ability to have live dash boards, product recommendations, automated responses, and many other market innovations thanks in large part to the market research process. 
11. Marketing research is now an essential part of doing business. It is used from election results prediction to test marketing. For instance, in the House of Cards, 
	1. Context: Doug Stamper, the President’s Chief of Staff, suggests that President Underwood selecting his wife as his running mate would be a disaster for the campaign. Leann Harvey, the soon-to-be campaign manager, objects to his use of focus groups as evidence:
		
		Dialogues: 
		Leann: You ran a few polls, so what?
		Doug: Focus groups, too.
		Leann: Meaningless.
		
	What makes the characters feel traditional market research tools are “useless”. This is at the crux of what we are going to learn in our course. We are going to focus on: 

1. What is Market research. Why use it, and when not to use it?
	1. It is about knowing what’s happening. Not feeling. 
2. The assumptions and intuitions behind the various methods that we use
3. Understanding the reports generated by the reports, and using them to make data driven managerial decisions. 

In summary, this course is about getting insights from consumers. And trying to know how those insights came about. 

Close class by discussing the course outline and detailing the assignments. 
